break screaming a 6 200
ton freight train is desperately trying
to stop
the two men controlling the machine are
looking at the tracks before them
in horror they know they won't come to a
halt in time
so the conductor does the unthinkable
may 12 1998 it was a perfectly sunny day
in lafayette indiana
and tilda marshall mother of four
decided it was a good time to do some
garden work
she went to her backyard and got down to
tending the flowers
leaving her 19 month old daughter emily
with her older brother
the sun was getting hotter and soon miss
marshall got completely absorbed in her
work
in the meantime robert moore and rod
lindley were sitting in the cab of a
locomotive
making its slow but steady way through
the flat indiana landscape
moore was the train's conductor and
lindley his engineer and they'd worked
together for the best part of their
lives
on that day the routine was as boring as
usual
and the two were lazily talking each one
in their own thoughts
but still they kept a watchful eye on
the road
ahead laid the town of lafayette and
they had to make sure
the passage was safe just before the
curve of the rails
lingley dropped the speed to 25 miles
per hour as the rules required
in residential areas animals and people
sometimes appeared on the tracks
so the train had to move slowly to be
able to stop in time
conductor and engineer grew cautious
turned on the warning bell and flashing
lights
and were carefully observing their
surroundings they had to cross two dozen
streets over a three-mile stretch
and although they'd been through the
town hundreds of times
it was still a nervous experience and
the caution paid off
when the locomotive rounded the curve
and the crew got a clear view of the
road ahead
lindley noticed something small on the
tracks just a few hundred feet away
tiller marshall lost track of time and
had been busy gardening for a few hours
when she finally decided to take a break
she got up from the dirt
took off her gloves wiped the sweat from
her brow
and turned to get a glass of water from
the house but then it struck her
that something was wrong it was too
quiet which was never the case
especially with emily around
she was a loud and lively girl just like
any toddler
tilla rushed into the house and saw her
son who was supposed to be with emily
inside
alone and then she heard the train's
horn
it was prohibited to do so in towns and
cities but
rod linley still blew the horn to scare
away what he thought was a dog on the
train tracks
at the same time he hit the brakes and
started slowly bringing the train to a
halt
he knew though that he couldn't stop the
heavy machine too fast
there were 96 cars behind the locomotive
and some of them contained
flammable gas if the train hauled it too
hard
while some of the cars were still on the
curve it could overturn
leading to a disaster so linley braked
carefully
and continued blowing the horn it was
then that his companion robert moore
who had been trying to discern what the
object was went pale
his eyes growing huge it's a baby
he cried and indeed when the silhouette
on the tracks raised its head
and turned towards the oncoming train
they both saw
it was a child no more than two years
old barely
able to stand on her chubby legs tilla
was standing at the door
petrified the railroad was just a couple
of blocks away
barely visible even from her front porch
and the horn was getting louder and more
frantic by the minute
her mind was racing but she couldn't
take a single step
frozen in horror and listening to the
train whistling away in the distance
she hoped the reason wasn't her daughter
on the tracks
but deep inside she knew it was
as soon as moore said the horrible words
lindley risked everything and hit the
emergency brakes
the train car started bumping into each
other slowly coming to a hall
too slowly the train would need another
600 feet to stop completely
and the little girl was half that
distance ahead if the baby didn't go
away from the tracks right then
nothing would help her when the train
came even closer
and the girl still stayed on the track
moore
jerked the left door of the locomotive
open stepped on the railing outside
and crossed to the other side perched
right behind the train's plow
he didn't know what he was hoping to
accomplish he just had to do something
he yelled and waved at the child to come
off the track
and miraculously it seemed to work the
baby really rolled off the rail and on
to the side
if she lay low the plow might have gone
above her head
but the girl started to push her
backside up to rise on her feet instead
frantic and terrified moore hung onto
the railing with a single hand
and outstretched his right foot as far
to the front as he could
the girl was directly on the way of the
train's plow
and he had only one chance of saving her
from being hit
only a dozen feet were left before the
impact
and moore was desperately hoping his
legs were long enough
they were in a swift and strong motion
moore kicked the girl to the side
catching her with his foot on the back
as she was standing on her feet and
hands the kick
sent her tumbling down the side of the
railroad
as in slow motion moore saw her hitting
her head on some rocks
but at least she wasn't plowed by the
train he jumped off the engine and ran
to the little girl's side
she was sitting on the stones a little
way down crying
bruised a bit but otherwise unharmed
and definitely alive
[Music]
the train finally came to a halt behind
moore
he was holding the girl to his chest
softly soothing her
and she was clutching to him someone
must have called the ambulance
because there were emergency service
vehicles near the tracks already
moore still talking to the girl took her
in his arms
and went towards the head of the train
there
firefighters took her from him and
handed her to the paramedics
the child was immediately whisked off to
the hospital
and the police officers went to the town
to find her parents
it didn't take too much time because
tilla marshall walked on shaky legs to
meet them
her face pale and eyes red the officers
were quick to assure her that the girl
was fine
but they needed to make sure it was
emily tilla recognized her daughter by
description
and nearly fainted when relief hit her
after inspecting the train and talking
to the police
robert moore and rod lindley continued
on their way
they still had work to do but when he
came home that evening
moore saw that his family was waiting
for him on the front porch
and they started applauding as soon as
they noticed him
it turned out moore's heroic act was on
tv already
and they knew what he'd done the little
girl emily was
fine and returned to her mother on the
next day
and a week later robert moore paid a
visit to tilla marshall's house himself
when the incident just happened he
thought she was irresponsible and got
angry
but then being a father himself he
remembered how tricky little kids can be
having learned the guest's identity
tilla marshall gave him a warm and
sincere hug of thanks
and emily with just the fading signs of
her ordeal
smiled as he picked her up